In this lesson, we're going to learn how to make our code, listen to our voice through the microphone
we've installed and transform what we say into text or in a string so we can work with it.
So we're going to start by making a declaration that this is going to be dedicated to hear the microphone
and return the audio as text.
So let's create a function that does this, which shall be called transform audio into text is long
yet very clear.
So this doesn't need any parameters.
And first you're going to have a declaration that says we're going to store recogniser in variable.
So let's create a variable called R to keep it simple.
I will be equal to an object of speech recognition for short.
We'll call it ASR through the method recogniser.
Now that we have the object.
Ah, let's go to the set microphone.
Let's put it with so we can do everything together and we say that speech recognition microphone will
be the source.
So let's call it source from now on and let's establish a waiting time.
So we have a little moment from when the microphone activates to when it starts to listen.
This often helps resolve some of the problems with volume or sound.
This waiting time is going to be very small.
It will be equal to our dot pause threshold, equal to 0.8, which is less than a second.
Now, let's do something that isn't necessary for the code, but for us programmers so we can test if
everything is okay.
Let's report that recording has begun to know that the microphone is connected and that it's functioning.
So here we're going to print on the console something that says you can now speak.
This is going to help us test as the code progresses, if we enter in the moment where we can broadcast
our voice.
So yes, we can talk and now it's going to save the audio we've recorded inside a variable.
So now we can generate this variable we put save what you hear as audio.
And we're going to save it in a variable that we can call audio that is equal to our dot.
Listen.
That will listen to what is in source.
Okay.
Let's keep going.
Now we need to be prepared for errors because there could be some difficulties with the microphone when
saving our audio.
And if it doesn't function how we want, we're going to have some unexpected errors.
So let's make a try so we can manage these circumstances.
Our code will try to search on Google what it is heard so it can put it into text.
So let's save this request transformed into text inside a variable.
We're going to call it request and let's establish that this request is equal to our dot.
Recognize Google.
This method has a very promising name.
So what does this method need?
First, the source of the audio or audio.
Then we have the option to select the language we want to use.
Here, I'm going to put language that in my case shall be e n for English, hyphen g b for Great Britain.
To be sure, it clearly understands the way I talk, which is British English.
If you live in the USA, maybe you prefer n hyphen us and if you speak another language, you must search
for the corresponding code.
So now we're going to make another declaration so we can print the written version in console only,
so we can see it as developers.
This won't be necessary in the final version of our program only to test testing, speech to text.
So we put print and here we can say you said space and we concatenate with request, and you should
now have the string of what we've said.
And as this function has to return as the request to pass the order to our assistant, we're going to
need return request and we're going to make return request.
With this, it seems we've completed everything we need so that our code works, but in the case that
it can't do it.
In other words, in case it doesn't understand audio, which is something that can happen in these cases
except will take charge and see if S.R. registers an error known as unknown value error.
So if this happens, then what we need to do so it doesn't interrupt our program is show proof that
it didn't understand the audio.
And we'll do it with a print that warns us.
Oops, I didn't understand.
So we can do this in case it doesn't understand what we say in the program doesn't collapse.
So we know there was an error and it has to return as something because the function has skipped a previous
step.
So here it's going to return error and it's going to say, I am still waiting.
There are also other types of error that I'd like us to control, so there would be in case the request
cannot be resolved.
In other words, that the audio was recorded, but it was unable to transform it into a string.
So this is going to be another type of accept.
It will be an s ah dot request error in the case that we get this type of error.
We should do the same as before.
Copy and paste this.
And like this we test that it wasn't understood and let's return.
I am still waiting.
And in the case of other unexpected errors, those we cannot anticipate which there will be.
Let's put the unexpected error, because when we work with something so delicate, like recognizing
audio and transforming it to text, many things can happen.
So we also put a general except without specifying the error.
Paste everything and we have to change the messages, including the accept from before where it would
be better than it said something like Whoops, there is no service.
And the last one can say Whoops, something went wrong.
So we have the error under control.
So let's see if this works.
Leaving the function and writing here a call to transform our the into text.
Remember that it doesn't ask for parameters so we can execute and we choose the archive and here arrives
our assistant.
I am talking with my assistant to see if they understand what I say.
And here they write it perfectly.
They understood what I said.
So now we know that we can make our program, listen to our voice, and transform it into text.
So what are we going to do with this?
Let's see in the next lesson.